---
title: "Week 10: November 10th, 2014"
---

### New Stuff!

I've put together an [Assignments page]({{urls.base_path}}assignments/) that lists all assignments and what is due.

### Using Meshmixer on the dFab Lab machines

If Meshmixer gives you errors about being unable to open
`C:\Users\USERNAME\Documents\meshmixer\library\parts` - your account is missing
some files. You will need to follow these steps to fix it.

1. Download the missing parts folder ([.zip file here]({{urls.media}}/weeks/10/parts.zip))
2. Open Explorer and navigate to the right destination:
	* Find your **Documents** folder.
	* It should have a **meshmixer** folder inside it.
	* That should have a **libraries** folder inside it.
	* Open up **libraries** - it should be empty.
3. Open the **parts.zip** file that you downloaded.
4. Drag the **parts** folder into the empty **libraries** folder
5. Restart Meshmixer if it is running.

You may also have some issues with the Meshmixer popup announcing that a new version is available. If you see this pop up while you are trying to open a file or while another error dialog is visible, you will have to close the file dialog or other popup before you will be able to dismiss the new version dialog.

### Today!

* Printable Tool Review
* Project 2 Work Session

### Printable Tool Research Review

Let's go around the room and talk about your printed tools.

{{# assignments.tags.prj2 }}
{{# assignments?to_assignments }}
{{{ content }}}
{{/ assignments?to_assignments }}
{{/ assignments.tags.prj2 }}

### Homework

{{# assignments.tags.week10 }}
{{> assignments.html }}
{{/ assignments.tags.week10 }}
