---
title: "Week 12: November 24, 2014"
---

### Reminder: Project 2 Documentation is due today

Make sure your project documentation is in a GitHub repository, with all of the
required elements.

### More Project 2 presentations

For those that missed out last week.

Let's focus on providing thoughtful and constructive feedback for everyone.

I would like for this discussion to be led by you not me.

#### A little structure...

For each student:

* First, we (the audience) provide feedback or ask questions based on observation.
* Then, you (the presenters) can talk a bit about what you were trying to accomplish.
* Finally, back and forth between all of us.

----

{{# assignments.tags.prj3 }}
{{# assignments?to_assignments }}
{{{ content }}}
{{/ assignments?to_assignments }}
{{/ assignments.tags.prj3 }}

----

### Brainstorming Exercise

To help with the process of coming up with a final project, let's do a
collaborative brainstorming activity!

Thanks to my friends at [Oil and Rope Games](http://oilandrope.com/blog) for
this exercise.

#### Form Groups

Get into groups of 4 (there can be a single group of 5).

Group size is very important for keeping this exercise on time.

#### Think about some design goals

What are your goals for the final project? Here are some simple examples:

* Make something mechanically useful to solve a problem in my life.
* Make something that interacts with a real-world object to enhance or subvert
  its purpose.
* Make something that works around time and size limitations of 3D printing
  or laser cutting by clever connector design.
* Make something beautiful, disturbing, or otherwise thought-provoking.
* Make something that has a secret or non-obvious use or purpose.
* Re-make an everday object to better understand the challenges involved in its
  design and manufacture.
* ... *These are just examples. Think of something that inspires or challenges you!*

----

### Part 1: Crazy 8s

On a sheet of paper, write down 8 different ideas for final projects using
words and/or drawings that meet your design goals in some way.

This is a timed exercise and it moves very quickly - you'll have 10 minutes to
spend on creating these ideas!

#### Some Tips:

* Create simple ideas.
* If you get stuck take a previous idea and change it slightly. 
* Don’t be afraid to write down old ideas as well, once you have a few of those out of the way your brain will be clear to brainstorm new ideas.

**Important: Just write something. Fill up 8 boxes with whatever you can come up with and don’t judge your ideas.**

Some of the best ideas arise when you’re scraping the bottom of the barrel, so don’t be shy and keep writing!

### Part 2: Crazy 8 Critiques

1. One person presents all 8 of his/her ideas to the group (5 minutes per person)
2. Everyone else critiques the ideas  (5 minutes per person)

**Critique Guidelines:**

* Put a star on 2 or 3 of your favorite ideas from other group members.
* Be positive: focus on the ideas you like, not the ones you don’t
* Do the designs meet the designer’s goals?
* Take notes!

This is your time as a group to collaboratively brainstorm and bounce ideas off one another.

It’s possible the designer needs to reconsider their goals. Help the designer work towards -- or change! -- their goals. This is a time to figure out what we really want our goals to be: nothing is in stone yet.

**Notes:**  

(Did your goals change? Were you inspired by another idea? What’s good or bad about what you heard?)

### Part 3: Crazy 4s

We're going to do another 10 minute exercise, this time a round of crazy 4s.

In this round take the feedback you were given and/or other people's ideas and flesh them out further.

This time you'll only be creating and fleshing out 4 ideas in 10 minutes.

Remember your goal(s).

### Part 4: Crazy 4s Critiques

1. One person presents all 4 of his/her ideas to the group (5 minutes per person)
2. Everyone else critiques the ideas  (5 minutes per person)

Again, this is your chance as a group to collaboratively brainstorm and bounce ideas off one another.

Don’t forget to mark down stars on 2 or 3 of your favorite ideas!

### Part 5: Final Round - 1 Idea

Here's another 10 minutes, this time to work on a single idea.

Incorporate all the feedback you've received so far to come up with a unique
project idea that fits your design criteria for the final project.

*Please note: this does <strong>not</strong> need to be the idea that you pitch to me for
your final project in the class. You are free to use any techniques you like to come up with your final project idea!*

----

### Remaining time

Work on your project ideas for the final project.

If you are missing any homeworks or project documentation, now is a chance to
work on those, as well.

Check the [Assignments Page]({{{urls.base_path}}}assignments/) to see if you are missing anything.

If you need help with anything, please let me know.

### Homework

{{# assignments.tags.week12 }}
{{> assignments.html }}
{{/ assignments.tags.week12 }}
